---
Title: Output Variable Definitions
---

The following output variables can be displayed in OptimumDynamics result and report files. The definitions of each of these are also provided and can be seen within the software when viewing result files only. Depending on the type of simulation and vehicle setup are used some of these variables are not accessible.


__Output Variables__ | __Definition__
- | -
__Acceleration Input [Lateral]__ | The applied lateral acceleration in the simulation
__Acceleration Input [Longitudinal]__ | The applied longitudinal acceleration in the simulation
__Acceleration Input [Vertical]__ | The applied vertical acceleration in the simulation
__Aerodynamic Downforce__ | The total aerodynamic downforce generated by the vehicle. A negative value means that the vehicle generates lift.
__Aerodynamic Downforce [Axle]__ | The aerodynamic downforce reacted by the axle. A negative value means that the vehicle generates lift.
__Aerodynamic Downforce Coefficient__ | The aerodynamic downforce coefficient. A positive number results in downforce.
__Aerodynamic Downforce Distribution__ | This value represents the percentage of the downforce that is reacted by the front axle.
__Aerodynamic Downforce Utilizatiom__ | The ratio between the current and the maximum aerodynamic downforce coefficient.
__Aerodynamic Dragforce__ | The total aerodynamic dragforce generated by the vehicle. A positive value represents a force in the direction opposite to the vehicle velocity.
__Aerodynamic Dragforce Coefficient__ | The aerodynamic drag coefficient. A positive value results in a dragforce.
__Aerodynamic Efficiency__ | The ratio of aerodynamic downforce / aerodynamic dragforce
__Aerodynamic Pitch Moment__ | The pitch moment due to the aerodynamic forces (includes downforce and drag effects)
Air Density	The density of air
__All Wheels On Ground__ | This channel is set '1' when all wheels are in contact with the ground and '0' when at least one wheel has no normal load on it.
__Anti-Effect [Axle]__ | This describes the effect of kinematic linkages in the system. An anti-effect of 100% indicates that the slope of the side view instant center passes through the vehicle center of mass and there will be minimal spring deflection. An anti-effect of 0% indicates that the side view instant center is on the ground plane and there will be minimal geometric support of the vehicle body
__ARB Displacement [Axle]__ | The difference in linear displacement between the left and right side of the anti-roll bar
__ARB Force [Axle]__ | The force at the tip of the ARB arm
__ARB Linear Stiffness [Axle]__ | The current linear stiffness of the anti-roll bar
__ARB Motion Ratio [Corner]__ | This is equal to the ratio of wheel displacement over ARB linear displacement.
__ARB Wheel Rate [Corner]__ | Instantaneous wheel rate of ARB
__Axle Normal Load [Axle]__ | The sum of the axle's tire vertical load
__Axle Rotational Speed__ | The rotational speed of the driven axle
__Banking Angle [Input]__ | The angle between the ground and the gravitational acceleration, measured from the longitudinal axis.
__Brake Torque Distribution__ | The braking torque distribution. For example, a value of 70% would indicate that 70% of the braking force comes from the front wheels and 30% comes from the rear wheels. Note that this value may not be the same as the brake pressure distribution.
__Braking Ratio [Input]__ | The ratio that describes how much brake is being requested
__Bump Stop Displacement [Corner, Axle]__ | The distance that the Bump Stop has been compressed from its free length. A positive value represents Bump Stop compression.
__Bump Stop Force [Corner, Axle]__ | The force generated due to Bump Stop displacement.
__Bump Stop Free Length [Corner, Axle]__ | The length of the Bump Stop under no load.
__Bump Stop Gap [Corner, Axle]__ | The current distance the coilover must compress before the bump stop is engaged. If this value is negative the bump stop is compressed.
__Bump Stop Gap Full-Droop [Corner, Axle]__ | The static bump stop gap of the coilover as measured at full droop.
__Bump Stop is Engaged__ | Returns 1 if Bump Stop is being compressed
__Bump Stop Preload Displacement [Corner, Axle]__ | The displacement of the bump stop due to preload
__Bump Stop Preload Force [Corner, Axle]__ | The force due to the bump stop preload.
__Bump Stop Stiffness [Corner, Axle]__ | The instantaneous stiffness of the Bump Stop
__Camber Angle [Corner]__ | The camber angle of the tire. A negative value means the top of the tire leans towards the center of the vehicle.
__Camber Gain Heave [Corner]__ | The camber gain in heave for the corner. A negative value represents an increase in negative camber.
__Center Element Motion Ratio [Corner]__ | This is the ratio of wheel displacement over center element displacement.
__Chassis Heave Displacement__ | The vertical displacement of the center of gravity from its position when the suspension is in full droop.
__Chassis Pitch Angle__ | The pitch angle of the chassis. It includes the suspension and tire displacement.
__Chassis Roll Angle__ | The roll angle of the chassis. It includes the suspension and tire displacement.
__Chassis Slip Angle (Beta) [YMD Output]__ | The chassis slip angle
__Chassis Static Roll Angle__ | The roll angle of the chassis when the vehicle is at static position. It includes the suspension and tire displacement.
__CoilOver Displacement [Corner, Axle]__ | The total axial displacement of the coilover from its free length. This does not include the effect of the installation mount displacement. A positive value represents a compression.
__CoilOver Force [Corner, Axle]__ | The force generated due to coilover displacement. This includes the effect of the bump stop and spring
__CoilOver Length [Corner, Axle]__ | This is the coilover eye-to-eye length.
__CoilOver Motion Ratio [Corner]__ | This is the ratio of wheel displacement over coilover displacement
__CoilOver Preload Force [Corner, Axle]__ | The total static preload force acting on the CoilOver. It is the combined preload force due to the spring, bump stop and damper gas. This force has to overcome for the CoilOver to displace.
__Coilover Stiffness [Corner, Axle]__ | The effective stiffness of the coilover as a whole.
__Contact Patch Location (X,Y,Z) [Corner]__ | The position of the tire contact patch from the vehicles center of gravity.
__Differential Input Torque__ | Torque delivered to the differential after gearing
__Elastic Force [Corner]__ | This is the elastic portion of the total vertical force that acts between the vehicle body and the unsprung body. It is due to the deflection of the elastic elements that connect the vehicle body and the corner unsprung bodies.
__Elastic Force Ratio [Corner]__ | This is the ratio of the elastic force over the total vertical force that acts between the vehicle body and the unsprung body
__Engaged Gear [Input]__ | The current engaged gear of the gearbox
__Engine Output Torque__ | The torque of the engine
__Engine Rotational Speed__ | The rotational speed of the engine axle
__Front View Instant Center Location (X,Y,Z) [Corner]__ | The point where the instant axis (between the wheel and the chassis) crosses the lateral axle plane
__Frontal Area__ | The frontal area of the vehicle used in the calculations for the aerodynamic model
__Geometric Force [Corner]__ | This is the geometric portion of the total vertical force that acts between the vehicle body and the unsprung body. It is due to the direct kinematic connection between the vehicle body and the corner unsprung bodies. Geometric Force does not cause deflection of the elastic elements that connect vehicle body and the corner unsprung bodies.
__Geometric Force Ratio [Corner]__ | This is the ratio of the geometric force over the total vertical force that acts between the vehicle body and the unsprung body.
__Grade Angle [Input]__ | The angle between the ground and the gravitational acceleration, measured from the lateral axis.
__Input Parameters Aerodynamics Downforce Scaling Factor__ | This is the input value for the aerodynamic downforce scaling factor
__Input Parameters Aerodynamics Drag Scaling Factor__ | This is the input value for the aerodynamics downforce
__Input Parameters Aerodynamics Frontal Area__ | This is the input value for the aerodynamics frontal area
__Input Parameters Brakes Brake Distribution Front__ | This is the input value for the front brake distribution
__Input Parameters Chassis CG Height__ | This is the input value for the chassis center of gravity height
__Input Parameters Chassis Axle Ride Height__ | This is the input value for the ride height at the axle
__Input Parameters Chassis Mass Distribution Front__ | This is the input value for the front chassis mass distribution
__Input Parameters Chassis Non-Suspended Mass Corner__ | This is the input value for the non-suspended mass for the corner
__Input Parameters Chassis Reference Axle Ride Height__ | This is the input value for the reference chassis ride height when the CG height was measured
__Input Parameters Chassis Total Mass__ | This is the input value for the total chassis mass
__Input Parameters Axle Suspension ARB Stiffness__ | This is the input value for the anti-roll bar stiffness for the axle
__Input Parameters Axle Suspension Corner Coilover Bumpstop Gap__ | This is the input value for the coilover bumpstop gap for the corner
__Input Parameters Axle Suspension Corner Coilover Spring Gap__ | This is the input value for the coilover spring gap for the corner
__Input Parameters Axle Suspension Corner Coilover Spring Stiffness__ | This is the input value for the coilover spring stiffness for the corner
__Input Parameters Axle Suspension Corner Half Track__ | This is the input value for the half track of the corner
__Input Parameters Axle Suspension Corner Static Camber__ | This is the input value for the static camber for the corner
__Input Parameters Axle Suspension Corner Static Toe__ | This is the input value for the static toe for the corner
__Input Parameters Axle Suspension Corner Tire Pressure__ | This is the input value for the tire pressure for the corner
__Input Parameters Front Suspension Steering Rack Pinion Rack Ratio__ | This is the input value for the steering rack ratio
__Input Parameters Reference Distance__ | This is the input value for the reference distance
__Instantaneous Roll Gradient__ | Amount of Body Roll per Lateral Acceleration
__Lateral Load Transfer Distribution__ | The ratio of front lateral load transfer to the total lateral load transfer due to all external inputs. If negligible or no load transfer is occurring, the solver will return NaN.
__Lateral Velocity__ | Lateral Velocity of the Chassis in Chassis x-y coordinates
__Load Distribution [Cross]__ | The sum of the front left and rear right tire normal load divided by the total tire normal load
__Load Distribution [Axle]__ | The sum of the front left and front right tire normal load divided by the total tire normal load
__Load Distribution [Left]__ | The sum of the front left and rear left tire normal load divided by the total tire normal load
__Longitudinal Velocity__ | Longitudinal Velocity of the Chassis in Chassis x-y coordinates
__Mechanical Trail [Corner]__ | Distance between intersection of the steeering axis and the center of the contact patch 
__Non-Suspended Mass [Corner]__ | The static non-suspended mass of the corner
__Resultant Lateral Acceleration__ | The resultant achieved lateral acceleration of the vehicle
__Resultant Longitudinal Acceleration__ | The resultant achieved longitudinal acceleration of the vehicle
__Resultant Vertical Acceleration__ | The resultant achieved vertical acceleration of the vehicle
__Resultant Turn Radius__ | The resultant achieved turn radius of the vehicle
__Resultant Wheel Torque [Corner]__ | The torque at the wheel center generated by the tire longitudinal force
__Ride Height [Axle]__ | The vertical displacement of the vehicle as measured at the front/rear track
__Roll Angle [Axle]__ | The roll angle of the vehicle chassis about the longitudinal axis. This is the sum of the tire and suspension roll angle
__Scrub Radius [Corner]__ | Scrub Radius
__Roll Center Height [Axle]__ | The geometric roll center height at the front/ rear plane of the vehicle
__Side View Instant Center Location X [Corner]__ | The point where the instant axis (between the wheel and the chassis) crosses the longitudinal axle plane
__Side View Instant Center Location Y [Corner]__ | The point where the instant axis (between the wheel and the chassis) crosses the longitudinal axle plane
__Side View Instant Center Location Z [Corner]__ | The point where the instant axis (between the wheel and the chassis) crosses the longitudinal axle plane
__Simulation [Distance]__ | The total distance the vehicle has travelled during the simulation
__Simulation [Percentage Completion]__ | The percentage of the simulation completion
__Simulation [Time]__ | This is the time in the simulation completion
__Simulation Input [Steering]__ | This is the applied steering wheel angle for the simulation
__Simulation Input [Velocity]__ | The input velocity for the simulation
__Slip Angle [Corner]__ | This is the slip angle of the corner
__Slip Angle for Peak Fy [Corner]__ | 	This is the slip angle of the tire that corresponds to the greatest lateral force for the given normal load, camber angle, slip ratio, speed, and pressure.
__Slip Ratio [Corner]__ | This is the slip ratio of the corner
__Solver Converged__ | A value of '1' means a successful solution for the vehicle was found based on the given simulation inputs. A value of '0' means a valid solution for the vehicle was not possible.
__Solver Convergence Error__ | The sum of convergence errors
__Solver Convergence Error – Heave__ | The heave convergence error
__Solver Convergence Error – Pitch__ | The pitch convergence error
__Solver Convergence Error – Roll__ | The roll convergence error
__Solver Convergence Error [Corner]__ | The corner convergence error
__Solver Time To Solve (Iteration)__ | The time taken to solve the particular iteration
__Solver Total Iterations__ | The total number of iterations required to reach a solution
__Spool Rotational Speed__ | The rotational speed of the driven axle
__Spring Displacement [Corner, Axle]__ | The distance that the Spring has been compressed from its free length. A positive value represents Spring compression
__Spring Force [Corner, Axle]__ | The force generated due to spring displacement
__Spring Free Length [Corner, Axle]__ | The length of the Spring under no load
__Spring Gap [Corner, Axle]__ | The current distance the coilover must compress before the spring is engaged. If this value is negative the spring is compressed
__Spring Gap Full-Droop [Corner, Axle]__ | The static spring gap of the coilover as measured at full droop
__Spring Preload Displacement [Corner, Axle]__ | The displacement of the spring due to static preload
__Spring Preload Force [Corner, Axle]__ | The force due to the spring preload
__Spring Stiffness [Corner, Axle]__ | The instantaneous stiffness of the Spring
__Spring Wheel Rate [Corner]__ | Instantaneous Spring Wheel Rate
__Static Camber Angle [Corner]__ | The static camber angle of the corner as measured on a setup pad
__Static Corner Force [Corner]__ | The static corner force
__Static Ride Height [Axle]__ | The ride height in the static vehicle position
__Static Roll Center Height [Axle]__ | The roll center height in the static vehicle position
__Static Suspended CG Location (X,Y,Z)__ | The static position of the vehicle suspended center of gravity
__Static Toe Angle [Corner]__ | The toe angle of the tire in the static vehicle position
__Static Total Non-Suspended Mass CG Location (X,Y,Z)__ | 	The position of the total non-suspended mass center of gravity from the total vehicle center of gravity in the static vehicle position
__Static Track Width [Axle]__ | The lateral distance between the tire contact patches in the static vehicle position
__Static Weight Distribution [Cross]__ | The sum of the front left and rear right weight divided by the total weight
__Static Weight Distribution [Axle]__ | The sum of the front left and front right weight divided by the total weight
__Static Weight Distribution [Left]__ | The sum of the front left and rear left weight divided by the total weight
__Static Wheelbase [Left]__ | The longitudinal distance between the tire contact patches in the static vehicle position
__Static Wheelbase Average__ | The average wheelbase of the vehicle in the static position
__Steered Angle [Axle]__ | This is the steering angle before the rack
__Suspended CG Location (X,Y,Z)__ | The suspended mass center of gravity
__Suspended Mass__ | The suspended mass of the vehicle
__Suspension Displacement [Corner]__ | Relative displacement between the wheel and the chassis
__Suspension Pitch Angle [Axle]__ | The pitch angle due to the suspension movement only. This does not include the pitch angle due to the tire deflection.
__Suspension Roll Angle [Axle]__ | The roll angle due to suspension movement only. This does not include the roll angle due to tire deflection.
__Tire Deflection [Corner]__ | The vertical displacement between the contact patch and wheel center
__Tire Force (X,Y,Z) [Corner]__ | The X components of the force generated at the tire contact patch
__Tire Heave__ | The contribution to the total vehicle heave displacement that is due to tire deflection
__Tire Inflation Pressure [Front Left]__ | The inflation pressure of the tire
__Tire Lateral Force Percentage [Front Left]__ | The lateral force percentage use of the tire, defined as (MaxFy-CurrentFy)/MaxFy. A number greater than 100% means the tire is overused, while a number under 100% means the tire is underused.
__Tire Lateral Friction Coefficient [Corner]__ | The lateral coefficient of friction of the tire
__Tire Loaded Radius [Corner]__ | The vertical distance from wheel center to ground
__Tire Longitudinal Force Percentage [Corner]__ | The longitudinal force percentage use of the tire, defined as (MaxFx-CurrentFx)/MaxFx. A number greater than 100% means the tire is overused, while a number under 100% means the tire is underused.
__Tire Longitudinal Friction Coefficient [Corner]__ | The longitudinal coefficient of friction of the tire
__Tire Moment Z [Front Left]__ | The Z component of the moment generated at the tire contact patch. Also known as Aligning Torque
__Tire Overall Friction Coefficient [Front Left]__ | The overall coefficient of friction of the tire
__Tire Pitch Angle [Left]__ | The contribution to the total vehicle pitch angle that is due to tire deflection only
__Tire Roll Angle [Front]__ | The contribution to the total vehicle roll angle that is due to tire deflection only
__Tire Unloaded Radius [Front Left]__ | This is the unloaded radius of the tire
__Tire Vertical Displacement [Front Left]__ | This is the vertical displacement of the tire. A positive value represents a compression and vice versa.
__Tire Vertical Stiffness [Front Right]__ | This is the vertical stiffness of the tire
__Tire Wheel Rate [Front Left]__ | Instantaneous Tire Wheel Rate
__Toe Angle [Front Right]__ | The toe angle of the corner. A positive value indicates toe out.
__Total Mass__ | The total mass of the vehicle
__Total Non-Suspended Mass CG Location (X,Y,Z)__ | The position of the total non-suspended mass center of gravity from the total vehicle center of gravity.
__Total Tire Fz__ | The total sum of the tire vertical Fz force components
__Total Wheel Rate [Front Left]__ | Instantaneous wheel rate of suspension and tire spring in series (not inclusive of third springs or anti roll bars)
__Track Map (X,Y) Coordinate__ | The location of the vehicle CG in the global fixed coordinate system
__Track Width [Front]__ | The lateral distance between the tire contact patches
__Vehicle Center of Mass Location (X,Y,Z)__ | The vehicle center of mass position from the total vehicle center of gravity
__Vehicle Control__ | Change in Yaw Moment with Respect To Steering
__Vehicle Stability__ | Change in Yaw Moment with Respect To Chassis Slip
__Vehicle Throttle Stability__ | Change in Yaw Moment with Respect To Applied Throttle
__Wheel Center Location (X,Y,Z) [Front Left]__ | The position of the wheel center from the total vehicle center of gravity
__Wheelbase [Left]__ | The distance between the front and rear tire contact patch in the longitudinal direction.
__Wheelbase Average__ | The average of the left and right wheelbase
__Yaw Moment [Output]__ | Yaw Moment acting on Vehicle CG
__Yaw Rate (r) [YMD Output]__ | Yaw Rate
__Yaw Rate Error__ | The yaw rate calculation convergence error
